---
layout: post
title:  "What is Scope?"
date:   2017-10-26 19:36:36 -0700
categories: Ruby
---

What is Scope?

Understanding scope is essential if you want to write code without raising NameErrors, NoMethodErrors, etc. So, what is scope? Scope is all about variable availability. When the Ruby interpreter comes across a variable, it needs to know if that variable's definition (assuming it has been defined) is available to be used at that particular place in the code.

Types of scope

In my JavaScript & Ruby Comparison post, I mentioned the types of variables available in Ruby. Let's talk about each of their scopes:

- Local variable:
  - what it looks like:  example - im_local
  - scope: will vary depending on where you defined them
- Global variable:
  - what it looks like: example - $im_global
  - scope: everywhere!
- Class variable:
  - what it looks like: example - @@im_classy
  - scope: only from class definition and any subclasses
- Instance variable:
  - what it looks like: example - @instance_i_am
  - scope: within a specific object and all methods of a class instance


Nuances of local variables

After playing around with local variables, I noticed that Ruby will place a local variable in a scope any time it notices the local variable is being assigned a value EVEN if the code isn't actually executed

{% highlight ruby %}
if 0 > 1
  pigs_fly = true
end

puts pigs_fly # yields nil; doesn't assign the variable to true since the code didn't execute
{% endhighlight %}

Instance Variables

Unlike local variables, instance variables are associated with a particular object. Local variables are tied to a particular scope and are accessible only within that scope. Instance variables, on the other hand, get replaced with every new object. Whereas local variables get replaced with every new scope.

We know a scope has changed when one of the following has been defined: a new method, class or module. Each of these has its very own scope with its own local variables.