---
layout: post
title:  "What Test Driven Development Taught Me"
date:   2017-11-15 19:36:36 -0700
categories: TDD
---

I built a tic-tac-toe game that runs in the terminal using Ruby and with the help of RSpec. Learning Ruby was a pleasure. Resisting the urge to write code before writing the unit tests was challenging.

### Test-Driven Development

TDD revolves around a short iterative cycle that follows these steps:
  - Write a test that specifies a requirement or method. The test should fail initially since no code has been written to pass the test
  - Write code that will pass the failing test. If the test is not passing, continue to refactor the code until the failing test passes
  - Once the test passes, refactor the code to remove redundancies while making sure that the new code continues to pass the test
  - Repeat for another requirement or method

With the help of TDD, I was able to focus on how to structure my project. Speficically, it forced me to ask questions about the design of my project in an organized manner.

### Building Tic-Tac-Toe

My first approach to create this tic-tac-toe game was to identify the most basic components needed to play: a board and two players. `Board` and `Player` were my initial classes. I started writing tests for the `Board` class because I figured I would need to design the board first so that I could have a structure ready to capture each `Player`'s move.

#### Board Class

The first test I wrote for the `Board` was one that checked for an empty board. Writing this test forced me to make a decision about which type of data structure I would use to capture the players' moves. Once I decided on a nested array (one array per row), I wrote my first test!

{% highlight ruby %}
describe Board do

  context "at the start of the game" do

    it "should be empty" do

      board = Board.new(3)
      expect(board.grid).to eq([[nil, nil, nil], [nil, nil, nil], [nil, nil, nil]])
    end

  end

end
{% endhighlight %}

I initially designed the `Board` to take in two arguments (row and column) but my mentor, Malina, brought to my attention that the `Board` could easily take in one argument to create a proportional board. When I went back to refactor the `Board` I realized how much harder it would have been to do this refactoring if I had not used TDD to organize my code.  My game still needs a lot of cleaning up and refactoring. Currently all of my tests check for equality. I will continue to document my experience with TDD as I learn how to craft more robust tests.
