---
layout: post
title:  "Debugging with Pry"
date:   2017-11-15 19:36:36 -0700
categories: TDD, debugging, dev tools
---

I've been using IRB (Interactive Ruby) for the last three weeks I've been learning Ruby. It's an interactive programming environment (commonly known as a REPL which stands for Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop) that takes my input, evaluates it and returns it to the terminal. Pry is another REPL but with some additional features.

When I use IRB, I have to copy and paste any code I want to inspect. But with Pry, I can inject it into my code files. It's much more flexible than IRB. After installing the Pry gem, I can use the `binding.pry` line anywhere in my code to inspect.

The binding from `binding.pry` refers to the built-in ruby class `Binding` which "encapsulates the execution context at some particular place in the code and retains this context for future use. The variables, methods, value of `self`, and possibly an iterator block than can be accessed in this context are all retained." When I place the `binding.pry` line in my code, that line will get executed by Ruby's interpreter. When the interpreters gets to that line, my code will freeze and the terminal turns into a REPL that exists inside my program's code at the location I added the `binding.pry` line.

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'pry'

class Rules
  attr_reader :board

  def initialize(board)
    @board = board
  end

  def get_horizontal_winning_mark
    winner = nil
    board.grid.each do |row|
      if get_mark(row)
        winner = row[0]
      end
    end
    winner
  end

  def get_mark(moves)
    moves.uniq.length == 1 && moves.uniq[0] != nil
  end

end
{% endhighlight %}

Using `binding.pry` in my code (inserted in line 19), I can inspect the result of calling get_mark(row) and the value of winner for example.

{% highlight ruby %}
    14: def get_horizontal_winning_mark
    15:   winner = nil
    16:   board.grid.each do |row|
    17:     if get_mark(row)
    18:       winner = row[0]
    19:       binding.pry
    20:     end
 => 21:   end
    22:   winner
    23:
    24: end
[1] pry(#<Rules>)> get_mark(row)
=> true
[2] pry(#<Rules>)> winner
=> "X"
{% endhighlight %}

Without `binding.pry`, I would probably be using `puts` all over my code to track the values and output of my code.